# PHSX815_Week5

PHSX815_HW5.py: This script demonstrates the concept of rejection sampling using a uniform distribution [0,1] and a target distribution bounded by the x-axis and the function f(x) = sin^2(20x) defined on the interval [0,1]. This program produces a two randomly distributed uniform samples of size N (one for x-coordinates, one for y-coordinates), then sorts them according to the rejection/acceptance criterion: if the point (x_i,y_i) < f(x_i), the point is accepted--rejected otherwise. Then, the script constructs a plot of the function f(x) overlayed with the accepted/rejected points (each plotted in a different color). Finally, the program prints out the number of accepts, rejects, and the ratio of accepts to sample size. The plot is titled "Rejection_sampling.png"

PHSX815_HW6.py: This script defines a couple functions used for numerical integration. func(x) allows the user to hard-code the desired function, intregrate_trap(num_intervals) calculates an approximation for the integral of f(x) from [a, b] using the trapezoid rule, and then changeOfInterval(a, b, x) convert the integral from [a, b] to one from [-1, 1] as these are the bounds used in gaussian quadrature. The final integral_gauss_quad(num_evals) function approximates the integral of f(x) using Chebyshev-Gauss quadrature. See https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chebyshev%E2%80%93Gauss_quadrature for more details. The program recives user input for num_intervals (used to approximate the integral of f using the trapezoid rule and to approximate the integral of f using gaussian quadrature), left/right integration bounds, and analytical solutions for both the integral of f(x) from [a, b] and that of the wighted, post-change-of-interval function used in the Chebyshev-Gauss approximation. The program calculates the integral using each method for a range of sub-interval/evaluation point values over teh given bounds and constructs a plot of integral value vs. # of sub-intervals. The trapezoid method of integration approaches the analytical value regardless of the chosen bounds, however, the gaussian method does so only for the example Margaret provided me. The gaussian quadrature method I chose doesn't seem to converge to the analytical value for arbitrary bounds, and I'm still not sure why. Margaret also helped me optimize my code by allowing the user to select the bounds of integration and explained that the Chebyshev-Gauss quadrature is meant to approximate POLYNOMIALS, not arbitrary functions.
